
CentOS started as a free, community-supported version of Linux that was functionally compatible with the Red 
  Hat Enterprise version. This made it very popular for server implementations in many organizations. In 
  January 2014, Red Hat pulled CentOS into its fold, becoming a formal sponsor of the distro. In late 2020, 
  it was announced that CentOS would no longer be maintained as a RHEL-compatible distribution but would rather 
  "fit" somewhere between Fedora and RHEL – not so new as to be "bleeding edge," but not as stable as RHEL 
  either. As part of this change, CentOS was renamed CentOS Stream.

Oracle/Scientific Linux
  Oracle/Scientific Linux is also seen in many data centers (and in Oracle's cloud offerings). Oracle Linux 
  is based on Red Hat, and they advertise their product as being fully compatible with RHEL. Oracle Linux is 
  free to download and use, but support from Oracle is subscription-based.

Most commercial Network-attached Storage (NAS) and SAN providers are based on Linux or BSD. The front runner 
  on open source NAS/SAN services, at the time of writing, seems to be TrueNAS (formerly FreeNAS) and XigmaNAS 
  (formerly NAS4Free). Both have free and commercial offerings.

Open source firewalls
  Networking and security companies offer a wide variety of firewall appliances, most of which are based on 
  Linux or BSD. Many companies do offer free firewalls, some of the more popular being pfSense (free versions 
  and pre-built hardware solutions available), OPNsense (freely available, with donations), and Untangle 
  (which also has a commercial version). Smoothwall is another alternative, with both free and commercial 
  versions available.

SIFT
  SIFT is a distribution authored by the forensics team at the SANS institute, focused on
  digital forensics and incident response tools and investigations. Similar to Kali, the goal of
  SIFT is to be a "one-stop shop" for free/open source tools in one field – Digital Forensics
  and Incident Response (DFIR). Historically, this was a distribution based on Ubuntu, but
  in recent years, this has changed – SIFT is now also distributed as a script that installs the
  tools on Ubuntu desktop or Windows Services for Linux (which is Ubuntu-based).

Security Onion
  Security Onion is also similar to Kali Linux in that it contains several information security
  tools, but its focus is more from the defender's point of view. This distribution is centered
  on threat hunting, network security monitoring, and log management. Some of the tools
  in this distribution include Suricata, Zeek, and Wazuh, just to name a few.

Virtualization
  Virtualization has played a major role in the adoption of Linux and the ability to work
  with multiple distributions at once. With a local hypervisor, a network professional can
  run dozens of different "machines" on their laptop or desktop computers. While VMware
  was the pioneer in this space (desktop and dedicated virtualization), they have since been
  joined by Xen, KVM, VirtualBox, and QEMU, just to name a few. While the VMware
  products are all commercial products (except for VMware Player), the other solutions
  listed are, at the time of writing, still free. VMware's flagship hypervisor, ESXi, is also
  available for free as a standalone product.




