
Why Sub-netting?
  Sub-netting lets network administrators use the 32 bits in IPv4 IP address space more efficiently. 
  They can create sub-nets within a Class A, B, or C network. This enables the administrator to create 
  networks with more realistic host numbers.
  Sub-netting provides a flexible way to designate which portion of the IP address represents the host IP and 
  which portion represents the network ID. In addition, even if a single organization has thousands of devices, 
  they don't want them all running on the same network ID. The network would slow dramatically. By dividing up 
  the network, you can have different physical networks and broadcast domains.

Sub-nets
  A subnet is a network within a network, namely a Class A, B, or C. Subnets are created by using one or more 
  of the host bits to extend the network ID. As you know, Class A networks have an 8-bit network ID, Class B 
  has a standard 16-bit network ID, and Class C has a standard 24-bit network ID. Subnetting enables us 
  to create network ID's of any size.

A network mask, 
  or netmask, is a binary mask that is applied to an IP address to determine whether two IP addresses are in 
  the same subnet. A network mask works by applying binary AND operations between the IP address and the mask.
  
Sub-Net Masks
  Subnet masks use the 32-bit structure of the IP address. The subnet mask tells us which bits are
  for the Network ID and which bits are for the host ID. When the subnet mask bit is set to one,
  this means it is part of the network. A bit marked as zero is part of the host ID

CIDR Notation
  CIDR, or Classless Inter-Domain Routing notation, is a way of representing an IP address and
  the network mask associated with it. CIDR notation specifies an IP address, a slash (/), and a
  decimal number such as 192.168.1.0/24, where the 24 represents the number of bits in the
  network mask. Of course, the number of bits can vary depending on the number of sub-nets.

Network Sniffers
  A network sniffer—sometimes referred to as a packet analyzer, protocol analyzer, or network
  traffic analyzer—can intercept and analyze network traffic that traverses a digital network


