In small office or home networks, the WAP is bundled with a device called a router, which lets you
  connect your network to the Internet. The combination of a WAP and a router is called a wireless router.

In the early days of twisted-pair networking, devices known as hubs were used
  rather than switches. The term hub is sometimes used to refer to switches,
  but true hubs went out of style sometime around the turn of the century.

»» Local area networks (LANs): In this type of network, computers are relatively close together,
   such as within the same office or building. Don’t let the descriptor “local” fool you. A LAN
   doesn’t imply that a network is small. A LAN can contain hundreds or even thousands of computers.
   What makes a network a LAN is that all its connected computers are located within close proximity.
   Usually a LAN is contained within a single building, but a LAN can extend to several buildings on
   a campus, provided that the buildings are close to each other (typically within 300 feet of
   each other, although greater distances are possible with special equipment).

»» Wide area networks (WANs): These networks span a large geographic territory, such as an entire
   city or a region or even a country. WANs are typically used to connect two or more LANs that
   are relatively far apart. For example, a WAN may connect an office in San Francisco with an
   office in New York. The geographic distance, not the number of computers involved, makes a
   network a WAN. If an office in San Francisco and an office in New York each has only one computer,
   the WAN will have a grand sum of two computers — but will span more than 3,000 miles.

»» Metropolitan area networks (MANs): This kind of network is smaller than a typical WAN but
   larger than a LAN. Typically, a MAN connects two or more LANs within the same city that are
   far enough apart that the networks can’t be connected via a simple cable or wireless connection.

the Internet Protocol (IP) defines the format of IP addresses: four eight-bit numbers called
  octets whose decimal values range from 0 to 255, as in 10.0.101.155

Network standards are organized into a framework called the Open Systems Inter-connection (OSI)
  Reference Model. The OSI Reference Model establishes a hierarchy for protocols so that each
  protocol can deal with just one part of the overall task of data communications. The OSI
  Reference Model identifies seven distinct layers at which a protocol may operate:

»» Physical (layer 1): Describes the mechanical and electrical details of network
   components such as cables, connectors, and network interfaces.

»» Data link (layer 2): Describes the basic techniques that networks use to uniquely identify
   devices on the network (typically via a MAC address) and the means for one device to send
   information over the physical layer to another device, in the form of data packets. Switches
   operate at the data link layer, which means that they manage the efficient transmission of
   data packets from one device to another.

»» Network (layer 3): Handles the routing of data across networks. Routers operate at the network layer.

»» Transport (layer 4): Provides for reliable delivery of packets.

»» Session (layer 5): Establishes sessions between network applications.

»» Presentation (layer 6): Converts data so that systems that use different data formats can exchange information.

»» Application (layer 7): Allows applications to request network services.

In a star topology, each network node is connected to a central device called a hub or a switch,

You should be aware of the somewhat technical distinction between a hub and a switch. Simply put,
  a hub doesn’t know anything about the computers that are connected to each of its ports. So, when
  a computer connected to the hub sends a packet to a computer that’s connected to another port, the
  hub sends a duplicate copy of the packet to all its ports. In contrast, a switch knows which computer
  is connected to each of its ports. As a result, when a switch receives a packet intended for a
  particular computer, it sends the packet only to the port that the recipient is connected to.

Cat-5e cable is able to carry network data at speeds of up to 1 gigabit per second
  (Gbps). The newer and somewhat more expensive Cat-6 cable can carry data at up
  to 10 Gbps but can sustain that speed for only 55 meters.

The term adapter is often used as a synonym for interface. Port, interface, adapter
  three words that mean the same thing.

Every network interface must have a unique identifier called a MAC address. (media access control)
  Each MAC address is unique throughout the entire world.

MAC addresses are 48 bits in length, which means that more than 280 trillion devices can be
  assigned unique MAC addresses before we run out. When written, MAC addresses are written
  in six octets separated by hyphens. An octet is a group of eight binary bits, written as a
  two-digit number in hexadecimal notation, which uses the letters A through F in addition to the
  digits 0 through 9 to represent the value of each octet. A typical MAC address looks like this:
# 48-2C-6A-1E-59-3D

The term frame is often used instead of packet, but technically they’re not quite the same. Every
  packet begins with a preamble, which consists of 56 bits of alternating zeros and ones. This
  preamble is used by the electronic circuitry of the interfaces to get their clocks synchronized
  properly so they can accurately read the rest of the packet. It’s the rest of the packet that is
  technically called the frame. In other words, a packet consists of a preamble followed by a frame.
  Because the preamble is of concern only to the electronic engineers that design network interfaces,
  most non-engineers use the terms packet and frame interchangeably.


Ethernet has a standard packet format that all packets sent on an Ethernet net-
  work must follow. An Ethernet packet contains the following information:

»» Preamble: The preamble consists of 56 bits of alternating ones and zeros and
   is used to synchronize the precise timing required to read packet data.

»» Start-of-frame marker: A start-of-frame marker is a single byte that indicates
   that the frame is about to begin.

»» Destination MAC address (six bytes).

»» Sender MAC address (six bytes).

»» Tag: The tag, which is used to support virtual local area networks (VLANs), is optional.
   A VLAN lets you divide two or more distinct LANs on a shared physical infrastructure
   (for example, cables and switches)

»» Ethertype (two bytes): This field indicates the specific protocol that is contained in the payload.

»» Payload: The payload contains the actual data being sent by the packet. The payload can be
   anywhere from 46 to 1,500 bytes. If the information that needs to be sent is longer than
   1,500 bytes, the information must be broken into two or more packets, sent separately, and then
   reassembled when the packets reach their destination. (The tasks of breaking up and reassembling
   the data are handled by protocols at higher layers in the OSI framework; Ethernet itself has no
   understanding of what is in the packets it sends.)

»» Frame check sequence (four bytes): The frame check sequence (FCS) is used to ensure that the
   frame data was sent correctly. Basically, the interface that sends the packet uses an algorithm
   to calculate a four-byte number based on the contents of the frame and saves this number in the
   FCS field. When the packet is received, the receiving interface repeats the calculation, and
   then makes sure that the number recorded in the FCS portion of the packet matches the number it
   calculated. If the numbers disagree, the packet got garbled in transmission and is discarded.


Note that the details of an Ethernet packet are not really of much concern when
  you design and implement a network. Here are the main points to remember:
»» Ethernet packets contain the MAC addresses of the sender and the receiver.

»» The payload of an Ethernet packet is almost always a packet created by
   another higher-level protocol such as IP.

»» Ethernet packets can contain a tag field used to implement VLANs, which provide an important
   means of organizing a large network into smaller parts that can be more easily managed.


Ethernet has been very successful — in fact, it has become one of the most widely used networking
  protocols of all time. However, Ethernet’s shared media approach has a basic problem: It doesn’t
  scale well. When two or more interfaces are shared on a single cable, there is always the
  possibility that two or more interfaces will try to send information at the same time. This is
  called a collision. The result of a collision between two packets is that both packets will be
  destroyed in the process and will need to be sent again.

use switches instead of hubs. Switches all but eliminate the problem of collisions by forwarding
  network packets only to the cable segments that the destination devices are connected to rather
  than forwarding them throughout the entire network.

One of the most common users of broadcast packets is Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP),
  which allows computers that join a network to be assigned an IP address. When a network interface is
  first connected to a network, it sends out a broadcast message requesting the address of the network’s
  DHCP server. Every device on the network sees this packet. But only the DHCP service will respond.


The residential telephone line carries both data and traditional telephone signals
  simultaneously, which are encoded at different frequencies:
  
• A high-speed downstream channel, in the 50 kHz to 1 MHz band
• A medium-speed upstream channel, in the 4 kHz to 50 kHz band
• An ordinary two-way telephone channel, in the 0 to 4 kHz band

On the customer side, a splitter separates the data and telephone signals arriving to the home and 
  forwards the data signal to the DSL modem. On the telco side, in the CO, the DSLAM separates the 
  data and phone signals and sends the data into the Internet. Hundreds or even thousands of 
  households connect to a single DSLAM.

Although DSL and cable networks currently represent the majority of residential broadband access in 
  the United States, an up-and-coming technology that provides even higher speeds is fiber to the 
  home (FTTH) [Fiber Broadband 2020]. As the name suggests, the FTTH concept is simple—provide an 
  optical fiber path from the CO directly to the home. FTTH can potentially provide Internet access 
  rates in the gigabits per second range.

Physical medium. The physical medium can take many shapes and forms and does not have to be of the 
  same type for each transmitter-receiver pair along the path. Examples of physical media include 
  twisted-pair copper wire, coaxial cable, multimode fiber-optic cable, terrestrial radio spectrum, 
  and satellite radio spectrum. Physical media fall into two categories: guided media and unguided
  media. With guided media, the waves are guided along a solid medium, such as a fiber-optic cable, 
  a twisted-pair copper wire, or a coaxial cable. With unguided media, the waves propagate in the 
  atmosphere and in outer space, such as in a wireless LAN or a digital satellite channel.

Store-and-Forward Transmission
  Most packet switches use store-and-forward transmission at the inputs to the links. Store-and-forward 
  transmission means that the packet switch must receive the entire packet before it can begin to 
  transmit the first bit of the packet onto the outbound link. 

Comparing Transmission and Propagation Delay
  Newcomers to the field of computer networking sometimes have difficulty understanding the 
  difference between transmission delay and propagation delay. The difference is subtle but important. 
  The transmission delay is the amount of time required for the router to push out the packet; it is a 
  function of the packet’s length and the transmission rate of the link, but has nothing to do with the 
  distance between the two routers. The propagation delay, on the other hand, is the time it takes a bit 
  to propagate from one router to the next; it is a function of the distance between the two routers, 
  but has nothing to do with the packet’s length or the transmission rate of the link.



