
# using:  $ ip route

From the output, we see that we have a default route pointing to 192.168.122.1. The default route is just 
  that – if a packet is being sent to a destination that isn't in the routing table, the host will send that 
  packet to its default gateway. The routing table will always prefer the "most specific" route – the route 
  that most closely matches the destination IP. If there is no match, then the most specific route goes to 
  the default gateway, which routes to 0.0.0.0 0.0.0.0 (in other words, the "if it doesn't match anything 
  else" route). The host assumes that the default gateway IP belongs to a router, which will (hopefully) then
  know where to send that packet next.
  We also see a route to 169.254.0.0/16. This is called a Link-Local Address as defined in the RFC 3927

Link-Local Addresses only operate in the current subnet – if a host does not have a statically configured IP 
  address, and DHCP does not assign and address, it will use the first two octets defined in the RFC ( 169.254), 
  then compute the last two octets, semi-randomly assigning them. After a Ping/ARP test  to ensure that this 
  computed address is in fact available, the host is ready to communicate. This address is supposed to only 
  communicate with other LLA addresses on the same network segment, typically using broadcast and multicast 
  protocols such as ARP, Alljoyn, and so on to "find" each other. Just for clarity, these addresses are almost 
  never used on real networks, they're the address that gets used if there is absolutely no other alternative. 
  And just for confusion, Microsoft calls these addresses something different – Automatic Private Internet 
  Protocol Addressing (APIPA).

Finally, we see a route to the local subnet, in this case 192.168.122.0/24. This is called a connected route 
  (since it's connected to that interface). This tells the host that no
  routing is needed to communicate with other hosts in its own subnet.
  
This set of routes is very common in simple networks – a default gateway, a local segment,
  and that's it. In many operating systems you won't see the 169.254.0.0 subnet unless
  the host is actually using a link-local address.



